The Joe Rogan experience. And I ain't no fighter, man. I'm oh,
one in one lifetime.
Oh one in one, one draw.
We have with the draw teacher showed up. I got in a fight.
I got in a fight in the eighth grade at a stop. The violence rally. No.
Cause I figured that'd be the best place to talk.
Cause what's, what's a better spot.
Talk your then at a stop,
the violence rally because presumably someone will come in and go, Hey man,
this dude, we brothers, Mario brown slept the out of me. Mario.
Brown. Where are you at? Mario?
Mario brown is, uh, air force retired.
We still to this day now, but on that day he slept,
it dug out of me in the gym, in front of everybody.
That's the worst ill in front of everybody.
That's a hard one. That's a hard.
Yeah. I thought I was going to get off on that one. Wrong. Yeah.
I didn't know how to fight at all until I learned how to fight.
I was terrified of fights. I never, never,
never was never was the guy who like,
I was just trying to get away from everybody.
Cause I grew up in different places. We moved around a lot when I was a kid.
So I didn't grow up like with a bunch of friends where everybody knew everybody,
like I was always the new kid.
So you always had to always.
Always. And so then when I was 14, I was like, all right, this.
I moved to a new city, new town. And I was like, I gotta learn how to fight.
So I started taking martial arts. I just became obsessed with it.
Do you teach your kids? Yeah. Yeah. I teach them,
but they're not into it anymore. They, uh, they were into it for a little while,
but they, they liked doing other stuff, mostly gymnastics and. But.
Are you teaching them, did you think to, cause I'm trying to silo my son.
You know how to approach self-defense is three he's
three. I noticed early. Yeah.
But it's not it's it's not a bad thing to get it to be a part of his body when
he's really young. My daughter started when she was five.
But the question becomes about teaching proper conflict resolution because I
also I'm wired a little weird in the sense that I feel like because he's a black
kid, he's not going to get judged the same if he throws the first punch.
So I don't want him in a position where he might get expelled or some, you know?
Right. But if you got to get them up the off you going on,
bend that knee sideways.
Well, that's the beautiful thing about kids learning jujitsu too,
is that also the really used to conflict because you have conflict in the gym
all the time, not conflict in a negative way, but when you're sparring,
you know, you slap hands and you just do it and you go full blast.
You're trying to get each other as hard as you can.
And you can do that in jujitsu because you're not hitting each other.
You're just choking each other and getting an arm bars.
And then when someone gets you,
you just tap and then you move on to the next thing.
And the thing about doing that is then you're not worried about conflict.
It doesn't seem as scary to you.
Like for me until I started learning martial arts, I was terrified of everybody.
I thought everybody was going to kick my. Like.
I was like every I'd seen some dude that bullied me and my and I'd go around the
whole opposite way of school.
I w I walked the total way around the school to get to the bus
Was down 15, extra minutes. I didn't care.
I have to walk 20 extra minutes home if I didn't want to cut through the south
part projects because there was this dude, Spencer,
that was always every week for sure, going to give me the business.
Those people go ruin your lives.
Every week.
Like they would sit on the porch and watch me walk in the corner store.
And then bill come and take my now laters and laughing and mind you I've set
aside lunch.
I ate less at lunch so I could eat candy and chips on the way home.
And it was snatched that right out. My only thing that saved me growing up,
I had an ad, a good basketball goal.
So all the gang bangers in the neighborhood would come to our yard to shoot
ball. So I essentially learned every,
every terrible person in my neighborhood shot ball at my house.
So you can't with me because then you won't be able to shoot ball.
Oh, that's.
Nice. So I don't know if my mom did that by design.
I know she did it to keep me from going up to Powderly park,
to shoot ball where, you know, that's why the bull would go down.
But all the came to her house.
But out of respect to my mom and my dad, like they never started.
And I just walk around the neighborhood perfectly fine. Not at school.
I could still get with, but on the walk home, it was gravy. That's very nice.
Once she got the basketball guy, that was good.
Very nice. Yeah. It's hard.
A kid who's really mean who's like bullying you in high school and in junior
high school that could people's whole lives up.
Sometimes people never recover from that. You know,
it's a natural inclination that people have to with someone who's scared and
weak too. Just you see it in animals, man. You see it in dogs.
That's what we forget. We had like clothes and automobiles of civilizes. No,
it's still,
I'm trying to take your woman and reproduce and I'm trying to spread my genes
and I'm going to take your food.
Like that's the basic of bullying is that yeah.
It's nature.
And it forces you to overcome because almost every fighter that I've ever met
professional fighter was with George St. Pierre.
Who's like one of the greatest of all time told the story on the podcast about
he was a drive in his range Rover when he was world champion through
Montreal.
And he saw this homeless guy and the homeless guy was his bully in high school.
And he realized, he was like, whoa. I was like, what's going on, man?
What are you doing?
And like talk to the guy and try to make amends with the guy and help him out a
little bit. But it's like, man, this is his bully in high school.
And he realized like,
most people that are causing pain and inflicting pain on people,
they're in pain, man. That's why they're doing it. You know, it's like victims,
you know, the victims of crimes,
oftentimes perpetrate those crimes on other people that,
that happens with kids get abused at home. They get beaten at home.
They're the ones who want to beat and kids up at school. You know, they just,
they want to dish out that violence on someone smaller than them.
Cause they're getting a dished out on them by someone that large. Yeah, Matt,
I mean, th that's that's the constant victim narrative, but on the other hand,
families of people that grow up that are martial artists, like,
like all the kids know how to fight. They're the nicest, friendliest people.
They don't worry about it. It's not the thing that with their head. Like for me,
I knew, I didn't know how to fight. So it was scary.
So like every time someone would with me, I'd be like, oh, I gotta get away.
I can't fight. I don't know what I'm doing.
Some dude got me in a headlock and threw me down on the ground and was gonna
punch me in the face. I'll never forget this. Like I forget what was happening.
We were talking w like I said, something, he said something stupid to me.
I said something stupid back to him.
Then he just got me in a headlock and threw me on the ground.
And he held me like that he was going to punch it. I was like, Nan,
I ain't going to bother. I'm just sitting there going, God. And I'm helpless,
locked up in a headlock with this dude on top of me going.
And the only it's the only his mercy that he didn't punch my face in,
or he didn't want to get suspended or whatever. And I remember going, that's it.
I'm going to learn how to fight. This is ridiculous.
Do you,
do you ever run into the people from your past who have a revisionist history on
y'all's relationship and then.
Not too much because the only people that I'm friends with from back then,
I'm actually good friends with that.
I was friends with when I was growing up all your couple of buddies,
but most people that don't.
Ever bought a ticket to your show and came up to them.
By the time, by the time I was in high school, that's,
that's the only people that are still am in contact with anymore.
I had already gotten balls deep in martial arts,
like my first year of high school. So by like halfway into high school,
I was already crazy. I was already competing and traveling all over the place.
And so it was it. But I do run into people that fake stories.
I run into people that tell me things that have,
remember that time we were at a party. You kicked that dude in the hand.
I'm like, dude, I never kicked anybody. I never happened. A hundred percent.
Definitely never happened. I never went to a party and beat anybody's.
Never happened with that memory of D correct him.
I T correct him. I'm like, I never fought anybody.
Some dude was telling me some story about,
some guy told him that one time we were on the street and some guys across the
street were talking.
And I went across the street and kicked both of them in the head. And like,
that never happened. Never happened. I'm a guarantee you, it never happened.
Cause the last time I was in a street fight, I was like 15. I'm like,
this never happened. This is not a true.
Yeah, I'm the opposite man.
And when people come to me with that I don't remember, I just let them have it.
If that's your memory of us in college. Fine. Whatever weird though.
Right?
No, it didn't happen when you definitely know.
Like I know for a fact I was never in any street fights outside of high school.
At a professor from college, accused me in a fate. This is an,
a Facebook thread of something.
There's some article about me and like all the other alumni commenting on it.
And one of the professors I remember in 1994,
when you said this thing to me in and stormed out of class, I'm like,
I didn't enroll until 96, but I didn't say that. I just,
I literally just apologize. Like,
because she's clearly been mad at me all of this time about something that I
didn't even do. And I'm just like, there's nothing, I can say this,
if that's your narrative fine, you know what,
I'm sorry for the that I didn't do whatever. But,
but then she replies on her that, well, thank you. It means a lot.
And then whatever. So in my weird arrogant brain,
I've freed her
of her anger or whatever the it is. She thought I did,
but that's a great approach. I just don't feel like going back and forth.
That's a great approach. It's, it's so much easier to evade.
I'm more of an innovator and a schemer than a fighter.
Like I'm not gonna argue with you and go back and forth.
But what I will try and figure out a way to do is over the next two years,
diabolically dismantle anything you stand for and believe in like, that's,
that's my approach to things like there's a comedy club owner. It,
God is my witness. Before I die. I'm opening a comedy club across the street.
This is a mega, no,
I've heard the stories. Where's this one, uh,
can not tell it's one of the Carolinas.